---
source_file: 2025.acl-long.1159.pdf
title: 2025.acl-long.1159
document_type: PDF
page_count: 20
parser: PyMuPDF
image_ocr_enabled: true
---

# 2025.acl-long.1159

## Page 1

Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 23780–23799 July 27 - August 1, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics

### Graph of Records: Boosting Retrieval Augmented Generation for

### Long-context Summarization with Graphs

Haozhen Zhang1* and Tao Feng and Jiaxuan You

#### University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

{haozhenz,taofeng2,jiaxuan}@illinois.edu, 1wazhz14@gmail.com

#### Abstract

#### Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has re-

vitalized Large Language Models (LLMs) by injecting non-parametric factual knowledge.

#### Compared with long-context LLMs, RAG is

considered an effective summarization tool in a more concise and lightweight manner, which can interact with LLMs multiple times us- ing diverse queries to get comprehensive re- sponses. However, the LLM-generated histori- cal responses, which contain potentially insight- ful information, are largely neglected and dis- carded by existing approaches, leading to sub- optimal results. In this paper, we propose graph of records (GoR), which leverages historical responses generated by LLMs to enhance RAG for long-context global summarization. In- spired by the retrieve-then-generate paradigm of RAG, we construct a graph by establishing an edge between the retrieved text chunks and the corresponding LLM-generated response.

#### To further uncover the intricate correlations be-

tween them, GoR features a graph neural net- work and an elaborately designed BERTScore- based objective for self-supervised model train- ing, enabling seamless supervision signal back- propagation between reference summaries and node embeddings. We comprehensively com- pare GoR with 12 baselines across four long- context summarization datasets, and the results indicate that our proposed method reaches the best performance (e.g., 15%, 8%, and 19% improvement over retrievers w.r.t. Rouge-L, Rouge-1, and Rouge-2 on the WCEP dataset).

#### Extensive experiments further demonstrate the

effectiveness of GoR. Code is available at https://github.com/ulab-uiuc/GoR

1

#### Introduction

#### Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently

achieved remarkable performance across sorts of language modeling tasks (Achiam et al., 2023;

*Work done as an intern at University of Illinois at Urbana-

#### Champaign

AI@Meta, 2024). Among them, the long-context global summarization task is of great importance, which requires ultra-long context understanding capabilities of LLMs (Li et al., 2024a; Liu et al., 2024b).

#### Current attempts to accomplish this

task mainly include long-context LLMs (Touvron et al., 2023; GLM et al., 2024; Li* et al., 2023; Tworkowski et al., 2023) and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Ram et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023; Trivedi et al., 2022; Jiang et al., 2023b; Asai et al., 2023). In comparison with long-context LLMs that expand their context window to accommodate long-context inputs, RAG performs a cost-effective retrieve-then-generate paradigm and provides a few retrieved short text chunks from a long docu- ment to LLMs. In a running RAG system, there are usually a large number of historical user queries and LLM-generated responses for a long document.

#### Nevertheless, these historical responses, which con-

tain informative task-related content, are mostly neglected without sufficient utilization by current RAG approaches.

#### Unfortunately, utilizing LLM historical re-

sponses for long-context global summarization presents two major challenges. (1) Sophisticated yet implicit correlations between historical re- sponses and text. Given a long document, there will inevitably be complicated correlations among plentiful user queries (e.g., logical correlations), which are further inherited by LLM-generated re- sponses and the retrieved text chunks. However, uncovering these correlations is non-trivial since most text embeddings from language models (e.g.,

#### SBERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019)) or retriev-

ers (Karpukhin et al., 2020) concentrate on seman- tic similarity, which faces degrading performance in this case. (2) Lack of supervision signal. In contrast with local (e.g., query-based) summariza- tion (Zhong et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2022a) that includes golden reference text as labels, global sum- marization needs to be considered from the perspec-

23780

## Page 2

tive of the long document as a whole and only has global reference summaries, which complicates the direct backpropagation of effective, accurate, and deterministic supervision signals to optimize the model towards a few relevant text chunks.

#### Based on the above observations, we propose

graph of records (GoR), which utilizes and or- ganizes LLM historical responses as a graph of records for enhancing long-context global sum- marization in RAG. In detail, we first leverage

#### LLMs to simulate some user queries conditioned

on arbitrary text chunks in a long document to obtain historical responses under the paradigm of

#### RAG, and an edge is then created between the

retrieved text chunks and the LLM-generated re- sponse to construct a graph of records. To learn fine-grained correlations among nodes, we employ a graph neural network and reuse the simulated user queries with the corresponding source text chunk as self-supervised training data. Intuitively, we hope the node embeddings can be adaptively learned to reflect the semantic and logical corre- lations with a given query. Inspired by the well- received BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019) that quan- tifies the semantic similarity between two para- graphs of text, we rely on it to rank the nodes ac- cording to their similarity with the self-supervised label of a given simulated query. In this way, node embeddings can benefit the indirect supervision sig- nal from the self-supervised labels and be flexibly optimized using a contrastive loss and a pair-wise ranking loss based on the node rankings. In the ex- periments, we adopt four long-context summariza- tion datasets, and the results demonstrate the superi- ority and effectiveness of our proposed method. For example, we show that GoR outperforms retrievers by 15%, 8%, and 19% w.r.t. Rouge-L, Rouge-1, and Rouge-2, respectively, on the WCEP dataset.

#### We also provide detailed comparisons and insight-

ful analyses through extensive experiments, further showcasing the effectiveness of our approach. Our contributions are summarized as follows:

• We propose graph of records (GoR), which utilizes and organizes LLM-generated his- torical responses as a graph of records to strengthen RAG for long-context global summarization.

#### We reveal that the fine-

grained correlations between LLM historical responses and text chunks from long docu- ments can be uncovered and utilized effec- tively to improve RAG performance.

• We leverage a graph neural network and de- sign a BERTScore-based objective to opti- mize node embeddings, which can be adap- tively learned in a self-supervised manner to reflect the semantic and complex correlations with input queries. Furthermore, the indirect supervision signal from self-supervised labels is crucial and conducive to the effective opti- mization of node embeddings.

• We evaluate our proposed method on four long-context summarization datasets, and the results show that GoR outperforms several competitive baselines by a significant margin.

#### Extensive experiments and detailed analysis

verify the superiority of GoR.

2

#### Graph of Records

#### In this section, we first present some necessary

backgrounds in Section 2.1. Then, we describe our proposed method sequentially through three sections, i.e., Graph Construction (Section 2.2),

#### BERTScore-based Objective for Self-supervised

Training (Section 2.3), and Retrieval from the Graph for Summarization (Section 2.4).

2.1

#### Preliminaries

Retrieval-augmented Generation.

#### Retrieval-

augmented Generation (RAG) (Ram et al., 2023) can typically be summarized into the following two processes. (1) Retrieval. Give a long document which consists of several split text chunks C = {ci}|C| i=1 as retrieval corpus, RAG first employs a retriever (e.g., Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021)) to retrieve K text chunks that are most relevant to a given query q based on semantic similarity. The retriever typically embeds the query q and a text chunk c from C using a query encoder Eq(·) and a context encoder Ec(·), respectively, and quantify their semantic similarity by the dot product opera- tion described as Sim(q, c) = Eq(q)T ·Ec(c). (2) Generation. The retrieved text chunks are fed into

#### LLMs with the query q to obtain the final response

r. The whole process can be described as:

r = Generation(q, {c1, · · · , cK}),

{c1, · · · , cK} = Retrieval(q|C). (1)

Graph Neural Networks. Graph Neural Net- works (GNNs) (Kipf and Welling, 2016) stand out for their excellent representation learning ability

23781

## Page 3

on graph data. GNNs update node embeddings iter- atively by aggregating messages from their neigh- boring nodes. Generally, the l-th layer of GNNs can be formalized as:

h(l) v = AGG(l) h(l−1) v , MSG(l) {h(l−1) u ,

u ∈N(v)}; θl m  ; θl a  . (2)

where h(l) u ∈Rdl is the embedding vector of nodes u in layer l and the dimension is dl. MSG(l)(·) is a message computation function parameterized by θl m and AGG(l)(·) is a message aggregation function parameterized by θl a in layer l.

2.2

#### Graph Construction

#### In this section, we describe how to organize LLM

historical responses into a graph of records by sim- ulating user queries. Query Simulation. User queries play a very critical role in the design of GoR since LLM his- torical responses generated by lots of repetitive, nonsense, or meaningless questions are inherently not beneficial for summarization. One solution is to use doc2query (Nogueira et al., 2019) to sim- ulate queries for a long document, but the gener- ated results inevitably suffer from simplicity and rigidity due to the limited text generation capabil- ities of T5 (Raffel et al., 2020). To this end, we directly turn to LLMs for query simulation with temperature sampling instead of greedy decoding for generating meaningful, insightful, and diverse questions. Specifically, we split a long document into several text chunks C following the standard procedure of RAG and prompt LLMs to generate a query qs based on a randomly selected text chunk cs. We repeat the above process until a certain num- ber of non-duplicate queries are generated, which are gathered in pairs with the corresponding text chunks to form a corpus T = {(qs i, cs i)}|T| i=1 for further model training (Section 2.3).

#### Organize LLM Historical Responses into A

Graph. After obtaining simulated queries, we uti- lize them to perform RAG on the long document.

#### LLM-generated responses during this process in-

clude informative and valuable understanding, sum- marizing, and answering of retrieved text chunks in the long document. Moreover, since there may exist sophisticated correlations among simulated queries, the text chunks and responses can inherit these features and potentially assist in answering a more comprehensive query, especially global sum-

marization that needs to be understood from a holis- tic perspective. Nevertheless, it is a significant chal- lenge to find correlations among complex and mas- sive text at the linguistic level and the embeddings from language models (e.g., SBERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019)) or retrievers (Karpukhin et al., 2020) focus on semantic similarity, which also suf- fers from poor performance in this case. To this end, we propose to break out of this dilemma by organizing these historical responses into a graph.

#### Inspired by the retrieve-then-generate process of

#### RAG, we can connect the retrieved chunks to the

corresponding response generated by LLMs since they are naturally relevant in content. Sequentially, during the i-th round RAG, given the simulated query qs i, we expand the retrieval corpus C with previously generated responses {r1, · · · , ri−1} and then build an edge between each retrieved chunk cj ∈{c1, · · · , cK} and the newly gener- ated LLM response ri, resulting in K edges con- structed in each round. Note that we append the responses generated by each round of RAG to the retrieval corpus because they contain more refined knowledge compared with the text chunks from

#### C and can help LLMs generate comprehensive re-

sponses in a self-evolving manner. Formally, the i-th round RAG on simulated queries {qs i}|T| i=1 can be described as:

ri =Generation(qs i ,{c1, · · · , cK}),

{c1, · · · , cK}=Retrieval(qs i |C,{r1, · · · , ri−1}). (3)

#### In this way, the LLM-generated responses serve

as bridges to connect the originally scattered text chunks C so that the fine-grained and sophisticated correlations among them can be better modeled and explored. Furthermore, we can potentially lever- age historical responses generated by LLMs and enhance the quality of future LLM responses.

2.3

#### BERTScore-based Objective for

#### Self-supervised Training

#### So far, we have constructed a graph using LLM-

generated historical responses during RAG given the simulated queries. The key in this section lies in designing a reasonable and effective objective function for model optimization. Considering that some random walk (Grover and Leskovec, 2016) or propagation-based (Zhu and Ghahramani, 2002) algorithms are not differentiable, we turn to graph neural networks (GNNs) for learning node embed-

23782

## Page 4

...

...

LLMs

1.Query Simulation

2.Graph Construction (Retrieve-then-Generate)

GNNs

#### Similarity

#### BERTScore

#### Node Ranking List

#### Retriever

3.Self-supervised Training

#### Graph of Records (GoR)

......

...

...

...

Figure 1: GoR model architecture. GoR randomly selects text chunks ci from long documents to feed into LLMs for query simulation, which are saved as a self-supervised training corpus T and further used for graph construction inspired by the retrieve-then-generate paradigm in RAG. For model training, GoR leverages GNNs to obtain node embeddings and calculate their similarities to the query embedding. Finally, GoR features contrastive learning and pair-wise ranking objectives based on the node ranking list Mi derived from BERTScore calculation.

dings, which are backpropagation-friendly. Intu- itively, given a global summarization query q, our ultimate optimization goal is to make the learned node embeddings adaptively reflect the similarity with the query embedding Eq(q) by taking the complicated correlations among nodes into account.

#### However, in global summarization tasks, there are

essentially no text chunk indices as labels to in- dicate which nodes are most relevant for a query since it needs to consider the long document as a whole. Another naive solution is to use global reference summaries as labels, but there is a gap in supervision signal backpropagation between them and node embeddings because we still need to find out which nodes are most relevant to them.

Therefore, inspired by BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019), which measures the semantic similarity be- tween the reference and the generated text, we pro- pose to use it to rank all nodes based on the sim- ilarity with reference summaries. By this means,

#### BERTScore fills the gap in the backpropagation

so that node embeddings can benefit the indirect supervision signal from the reference summaries.

#### Nevertheless, global reference summaries contain

broad information about long documents, making them highly semantically relevant to many nodes, which will confuse the model optimization direc- tion and degrade the performance (we will discuss it in Section 3.5).

Contrastive Loss Driven by BERTScore.

#### Based on the above observations, we directly reuse

the simulated queries T = {(qs i, cs i)}|T| i=1 to serve as self-supervised training data, in which the text chunk cs i is highly relevant to the query qs i and has more focused content. Given node embeddings output by the last L-th layer of GNNs, for the i-th query qs i, we rank them according to the similar- ity with the i-th text chunk cs i and obtain a node embedding ranking list Mi:

Mi = [h(L) + , h(L) 1 , · · · , h(L) |C|+|T|], (4)

where h(L) + stands for the node embedding with highest similarity. Note that we utilize the context encoder Ec(·) from the retriever to initialize node embeddings for simplicity. Then, we regard h(L) + as the positive while the rest in Mi as negative samples to conduct contrastive learning using In- foNCE (van den Oord et al., 2018), which brings the query qs i and the positive sample h(L) + closer in the semantic embedding space. We formulate the contrastive training objective as follows:

s(q, h) = exp  Eq(q)⊤h/τ  , (5)

LCL =−1

|T|

|T| X

j=1 log s(qs j, h(L) + )

s(qs j, h(L) + )+ |Mj−1| P

i=1 s(qs j, h(L) i )

,

(6)

23783

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_1.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_2.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_3.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_4.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_5.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_6.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_7.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_8.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_9.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_10.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_11.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_12.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_13.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_14.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_15.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_16.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_17.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_18.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_19.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_20.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_21.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_22.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_23.png
</image_summary>

<image_summary>
page: 4
path: parsed_assets/2025.acl-long.1159_page_4_img_24.png
</image_summary>

## Page 5

where τ is the temperature coefficient. Note that in the optimization pipeline of GoR, we conduct mini- batch training on the graph level, and each graph is associated with an independent self-supervised training dataset T. We also leverage in-batch nega- tives from other graphs since the nodes in them are completely irrelevant content from other long doc- uments (it is not shown in Formula 6 for brevity). Auxiliary Pair-wise Ranking Loss.

#### In the

above-described contrastive loss LCL, although we impose constraints on positive and negative samples, the ranking of negative samples them- selves is not well utilized.

#### Inspired by Lamb-

daRank (Burges, 2010), we further introduce an auxiliary pair-wise ranking loss on the ranking list

#### Mi, which can be formulated as:

LRANK = 1 |T|

|T| X

k=1

X

h(L) i ,h(L) j ∈Mk

#### Ir(h(L)

j )>r(h(L) i ) log

1 + s(qs k, h(L) j )

s(qs k, h(L) i )

!

,

(7)

where r(·) denotes the ranking index (e.g., r(h(L) + ) < r(h(L) 1 )). Given h(L) i , h(L) j ∈Mk that

satisfies r(h(L) j ) > r(h(L) i ), the pair-wise rank- ing loss will explicitly optimize in the direction of Eq(qs k)⊤h(L) j < Eq(qs k)⊤h(L) i , thus imposing stricter constraints to the pair-wise ranking. Overall Training Objective. To sum up, the overall training objective can be formulated as:

L = LCL + α · LRANK. (8)

where α ∈[0, 1] is a hyper-parameter. It is worth noting that GoR’s training costs are lightweight since the only trainable module is GNNs, and no human-crafted labels are needed.

2.4

#### Retrieval from the Graph for

#### Summarization

#### During the graph construction phase, we have al-

ready obtained a graph consisting of nodes that represent both the text chunks c from the long doc- ument and the responses r generated by LLMs during the RAG process. These nodes collectively form the retrieval corpus used by GoR during infer- ence. After GNN training, each node is associated with a learned embedding vector that captures not only its semantic content but also its contextual

and structural relationships with other nodes in the graph. These learned embeddings replace the original text embeddings produced by conventional retrievers (e.g., Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021)), enabling the model to incorporate richer relational information among document chunks, which is es- pecially beneficial for the summarization task. Dur- ing inference for global summarization, the process begins with encoding the query into an embedding using the same retriever. We then compute the similarity (via inner product) between the query embedding and all node embeddings in the graph.

#### The top-K most relevant nodes, comprising both

document chunks and LLM-generated responses, are retrieved based on this similarity score. These selected nodes, along with the query, are then fed into the LLM to generate the final summary.

#### Overall, the retrieval process in GoR mirrors that

of standard dense retrievers, with the key distinc- tion being the use of graph-enhanced node embed- dings and the inclusion of generated responses in the retrieval corpus. This approach allows GoR to better exploit both content and structural cues for improved summarization performance.

3

#### Experiments

3.1

#### Experimental Setup

Datasets. We evaluate our proposed method on four long-context summarization datasets, i.e., Aca- demicEval (Feng et al., 2024), QMSum (Zhong et al., 2021), WCEP (Gholipour Ghalandari et al., 2020), and BookSum (Kry´sci´nski et al., 2021).

#### Among them, AcademicEval collects scientific pa-

pers from arXiv for abstract writing, given the long inputs of its main body. QMSum is a query-based summarization dataset, and we only use “gen- eral queries” for evaluating global summarization.

#### WCEP is a multi-document summarization dataset

about news events, while BookSum features long- form narrative summarization. For metrics, we adopt Rouge-1 (R-1), Rouge-2 (R-2), and Rouge-L (R-L) (Lin, 2004) to assess the text alignment be- tween the reference summaries and the predicted content generated by GoR. Implementation Details. Following the stan- dard procedure of RAG, we adopt TokenTextSplit- ter from LangChain to split each long document into text chunks. Each chunk has a size of 256, and the chunk overlapping is 32. We generate 30 queries for each long document using Mixtral- 8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 (Jiang et al., 2024), and the

23784

## Page 6

#### Model

#### QMSum

#### AcademicEval

WCEP

#### BookSum

R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2

#### Node2Vec

18.5 31.8 6.3 19.3 38.3 10.6 13.9 20.1 6.3 13.6 27.4 4.6

BM25 18.4 32.1 6.1 20.4 39.6 11.3 15.5 22.6 7.3 13.7 26.7 4.9

#### TF-IDF

18.3 31.2 6.3 19.5 38.0 10.6 15.3 22.3 7.3 13.6 26.6 4.9

#### Contriever

19.1 32.7 7.7 23.6 44.8 16.0 15.7 23.5 7.7 14.4 29.8 5.5 DPR 18.6 32.1 6.7 20.9 41.4 13.2 15.6 22.5 7.5 13.8 27.1 4.8

#### Dragon

19.2 33.5 7.7 23.5 43.8 15.1 14.6 21.8 6.8 13.7 27.2 4.8

#### SBERT

19.0 33.0 7.4 23.4 45.2 15.8 13.7 20.5 5.5 14.4 29.5 5.4

BM25+DPR 18.3 31.8 6.6 19.9 39.0 10.8 15.7 22.1 7.6 14.1 28.9 5.4

#### Gemma-8K

19.8 33.5 7.3 21.9 42.0 12.9 15.6 21.9 7.7 12.8 23.4 4.2

#### Mistral-8K

19.6 31.2 7.2 21.6 41.6 13.1 16.7 24.2 8.8 13.5 26.2 5.3

#### Full Context

19.4 33.1 6.8 21.5 41.1 12.5 14.4 21.0 7.1 14.4 28.9 5.9

#### Thought-R

19.0 33.9 7.6 22.0 42.6 13.2 15.2 22.4 7.4 14.2 29.5 5.7

#### GoR (Ours)

19.8 34.5 7.8 24.7 46.5 17.3 18.1 25.4 9.2 14.9 31.5 6.6

#### Table 1: Experimental results on QMSum, AcademicEval, WCEP, and BookSum datasets over long-context

global summarization tasks w.r.t. Rouge-L (R-L), Rouge-1 (R-1), and Rouge-2 (R-2). Note that the average LLM input token length of GoR and retriever-based baselines is 6 × 256 (≈1.5K). (BOLD indicates the best score)

temperature coefficient is set to 0.5 by default in the query simulation stage. For RAG, we use Con- triever (Izacard et al., 2021) for query and doc- ument embedding and retrieve 6 text chunks by default, which are fed into LLaMA-2-7b-chat (Tou- vron et al., 2023) with greedy decoding to generate predicted summaries. In the training stage, we initialize the graph neural network as a two-layer graph attention network (GAT) (Veliˇckovi´c et al., 2017), with a 768-dim hidden dimension following the default setting of most retrievers. Baselines. To have a comprehensive evaluation, we compare our proposed GoR with dozens of base- lines, including (1) Random Walk based Node Embedding (i.e., Node2Vec (Grover and Leskovec, 2016)), (2) Sparse Retriever (i.e., BM25 (Robert- son et al., 2009) and TF-IDF (Ramos et al., 2003)), (3) Dense Retriever (i.e., Contriever (Izac- ard et al., 2021), DPR (Karpukhin et al., 2020), Dragon (Lin et al., 2023), and Sentence-BERT (SBERT) (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019)1), (4) Hybrid Retriever (i.e., BM25+DPR with Recip- rocal Rerank Fusion), (5) Long-context LLMs (i.e., Gemma-8K (Team et al., 2024) and Mistral- 8K (Jiang et al., 2023a)), (6) Full Context (i.e., feeds all inputs to LLMs for summary generation2), and (7) Thought Retriever (Thought-R) (Feng

1 We use all-MiniLM-L6-v2 as the backbone.

#### 2 If the input length exceeds the context window limit, we

randomly sample continuous text spans of maximum length multiple times to feed into LLMs and calculate the avg. result.

et al., 2024). Appendix A elucidates more details.

3.2

#### Main Results

#### We conduct comprehensive experiments on QM-

Sum,

#### AcademicEval,

#### WCEP, and BookSum

datasets compared with dozens of baselines to eval- uate the long-context global summarization capa- bilities of our proposed method. The results are shown in Table 1.

#### GoR consistently outperforms retriever-based

methods. From Table 1, our proposed GoR beats sparse retrievers, dense retrievers, and hybrid re- trievers in every aspect. Thanks to the constructed graph, which integrates text chunks from long doc- uments and LLM historical responses into a whole, node embeddings can better reflect the complicated correlations with given queries, thus significantly improving the retrieval performance of GoR. More- over, the informative content of historical responses may also enhance the summarization task.

#### GoR shows superiority over long-context

LLMs. We compare Gemma-8K and Mistral-8K with a longer context window to accommodate long-context inputs. However, longer inputs may contain minor information, and long-context LLMs struggle with this situation. In contrast, GoR can ef- fectively differentiate key and topic-related content in long texts using learned node embeddings and achieve better results with shorter input lengths. Additional Findings. (1) Node2Vec produces unsatisfactory results, and the node embeddings

23785

## Page 7

#### QMSum

#### AcademicEval

WCEP

#### BookSum

BM25 GoR BM25 GoR BM25 GoR BM25 GoR 38.7% 61.3% 30.0% 70.0% 70.4% 29.6% 35.5% 64.5%

#### TF-IDF

GoR

#### TF-IDF

GoR

#### TF-IDF

GoR

#### TF-IDF

GoR 40.6% 59.4% 33.3% 66.7% 66.7% 33.3% 41.9% 58.1%

#### Contriever

GoR

#### Contriever

GoR

#### Contriever

GoR

#### Contriever

GoR 51.6% 48.4% 53.3% 46.7% 48.1% 51.9% 54.8% 45.2%

#### Gemma-8K

GoR

#### Gemma-8K

GoR

#### Gemma-8K

GoR

#### Gemma-8K

GoR 6.5% 93.5% 16.7% 83.3% 37.0% 63.0% 12.9% 87.1%

#### Mistral-8K

GoR

#### Mistral-8K

GoR

#### Mistral-8K

GoR

#### Mistral-8K

GoR 12.9% 87.1% 40.0% 60.0% 37.0% 63.0% 22.6% 77.4%

Table 2: LLM Evaluation w.r.t. overall win rates on the QMSum, AcademicEval, WCEP, and BookSum datasets. Note that there are very few test samples that contain some security-sensitive information that causes DeepSeek-R1 to be unable to return valid evaluation information. We directly skip these samples.

cannot be optimized effectively since it is based on a non-differentiable algorithm. (2) Although

#### Thought Retriever demonstrates competitive re-

sults, it is still inferior to GoR due to the lack of ex- ploration of the correlations between retrieved text chunks and LLM-generated responses. (3) Since the context window length limit of LLMs is ex- ceeded, “Full Context” truncates the long-context input, thus losing some information that may be important for global summarization, resulting in suboptimal results.

#### Overall, GoR achieves the best results compared

with various baselines, demonstrating the effective- ness of our proposed method.

3.3

#### LLM Evaluation

#### To enable a more comprehensive automatic eval-

uation of GoR, inspired by LLM-as-a-Judge (Gu et al., 2024), we adopt DeepSeek-R1 (Guo et al., 2025) to assess the summaries generated by GoR and competitive baselines. Following (Edge et al., 2024) and (Guo et al., 2024), we evaluate from three perspectives: comprehensiveness, diversity, and empowerment. The LLM is instructed to pro- vide an overall judgment based on these criteria to determine the better summary.

#### To reduce evaluation costs, we select represen-

tative and strong baselines for LLM evaluation on the QMSum, AcademicEval, WCEP, and Book- Sum datasets. Table 2 reports the overall win rates, i.e., the proportion of summaries judged better un- der pairwise comparison. Evaluation prompts are provided in Appendix D. From Table 2, we observe the following. (1)

#### GoR consistently outperforms other methods

across all datasets, demonstrating stronger com-

prehensiveness, diversity, and informativeness. (2)

#### Contriever performs comparably, with results close

to GoR. (3) Long-context LLMs like Gemma-8K and Mistral-8K fall significantly behind, suggest- ing that GoR’s graph-based retrieval yields more relevant and refined content, especially when input length is limited.

#### In summary, GoR delivers superior performance

in LLM evaluation compared to other baselines.

3.4

#### Ablation Study

#### To investigate how each component of GoR con-

tributes to its performance, we conduct an ablation experiment, and the results are shown in Table 3. From Table 3, we can draw several conclusions. (1) Directly using the text embeddings from the retriever without training leads to degraded perfor- mance (i.e., w/o train), highlighting the effective- ness of the learned node embeddings. (2) Both the contrastive loss LCL and pair-wise ranking loss LRANK significantly improve performance. The pair-wise ranking loss imposes stricter ranking con- straints on node embeddings, making effective use of the indirect supervision signal from the self- supervised reference summaries. (3) In-batch nega- tives are crucial to the performance of contrastive learning. Removing in-batch negatives (i.e., w/o in-b neg) leads to a significant drop in results. (4)

#### Compared with self-supervised training, we utilize

global reference summaries as labels to conduct su- pervised training (i.e., w/ sup), and the results are significantly worse than the self-supervised setting. We will further discuss it in Section 3.5. In general, GoR’s reasonable module design en- ables it to achieve superior performance.

23786

## Page 8

#### Variant

WCEP

#### BookSum

R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2

w/o train 15.3 22.4 7.4 13.7 27.7 4.7 w/o LCL 14.7 21.9 7.2 14.1 28.8 5.1 w/o LRANK 16.6 24.2 8.2 14.0 28.0 4.9 w/o in-b neg 17.2 24.9 8.8 13.3 26.3 5.2 w/ sup 15.5 22.8 7.3 13.8 29.0 5.2

GoR 18.1 25.4 9.2 14.9 31.5 6.6

#### Table 3: Ablation study on the WCEP and BookSum

datasets w.r.t. R-L, R-1, and R-2.

3.5

#### Discussions

#### Impact of the Number of Simulated Queries

During Training. Query Simulation is a crucial stage in our method design, and we will examine how the number of simulated queries used during training affects learning performance. In particu- lar, we explore this effect by gradually increasing the number of simulated queries used in training. We present the results in Figure 2. Overall, R-L shows an upward trend as the number of simu- lated queries increases. Nevertheless, since fewer queries cover less relevant content from long docu- ments, the curves of each dataset have some fluctu- ations, indicating the occurrence of underfitting.

#### In general, 30 simulated queries can optimize

the model well across these four datasets, which indicates that our proposed GoR is cost-effective.

#### Nevertheless, increasing the number of simulated

queries may still potentially further improve the per- formance of the model. Due to budget constraints, we will leave this for future work.

0 5 10 15 20 25 30 #Simulated Queries

18.25 18.50 18.75 19.00 19.25 19.50 19.75

R-L

#### QMSum

0 5 10 15 20 25 30 #Simulated Queries

15.0 15.5 16.0 16.5 17.0 17.5 18.0

R-L

WCEP

#### Figure 2: Impact of the number of simulated queries

during training w.r.t. R-L. We show the results on the QMSum and WCEP datasets.

#### Supervised Training on Global Summariza-

tion Queries.

#### To dive deeper into the differ-

ences between self-supervised and supervised train- ing, we carry out additional experiments using global reference summaries. Specifically, we uti- lize global summarization queries and reference summaries to serve as a training corpus under the

supervised setting. As there is only one global summarization query for each long document, we replicate it multiple times to match the quantity of self-supervised training data, thus eliminating the impact of the quantity difference. We present the results on the BookSum dataset in Figure 3, and the Entropy denotes the entropy of the similarity distribution between queries and node embeddings.

#### From Figure 3, it is evident that in the self-

supervised setting, the loss is consistently lower than in the supervised setting. This suggests that the global reference summaries are highly corre- lated with many nodes, causing most nodes to ex- hibit a high semantic similarity with the global query. As a result, this confuses the model’s opti- mization direction. Additionally, the entropy curve shows that the entropy in the supervised setting is consistently higher than in the self-supervised setting, indicating that the model struggles to se- lect the most similar node. In contrast, the self- supervised label, derived from a specific part of a long document, contains more focused content, effectively guiding the model’s optimization.

0 20 40 60 80 100120140

#### Epoch

0

2

4

6

8

10

Loss

#### BookSum

#### Self-supervised

#### Supervised

0 20 40 60 80 100120140

#### Epoch

1

2

3

4

#### Entropy

#### BookSum

#### Self-supervised

#### Supervised

#### Figure 3: Differences between self-supervised and

supervised training w.r.t. loss and entropy on the BookSum dataset.

Inference Efficiency Analysis. To investigate the inference efficiency of GoR, we conduct exten- sive experiments on the WCEP dataset and present the results w.r.t. the inference time per query in Table 4. Note that since the LLM used in our exper- iment is consistent, we ignore the inference time brought by the LLM itself.

#### From Table 4, we can draw the following con-

clusion. (1) Since GoR’s only trainable module is GNN, GoR’s inference efficiency is very high, and almost no additional noticeable latency is in- troduced. (2) Although GoR’s inference time is longer than some baselines, it only increases by a few hundred milliseconds. Considering the signifi- cant performance improvement brought by GoR in

#### Table 1, this tiny time overhead is almost negligible

in practical applications.

23787

## Page 9

#### Baselines

#### Node2Vec

BM25

#### Contriever

#### SBERT

BM25+DPR

#### Thought-R

#### GoR (ours)

#### Inference

#### Time (s)

9.4 0.02 0.20 0.01 0.04 0.3 0.58

Table 4: Inference efficiency analysis w.r.t. inference time per query on the WCEP dataset.

4

#### Related Work

Long-context Summarization using LLMs. In recent years, LLMs have shown impressive capa- bilities in long-context modeling (Achiam et al., 2023; AI@Meta, 2024; Team et al., 2024; Jiang et al., 2024). Summarizing lengthy documents with

#### LLMs primarily involves two approaches: retrieval-

augmented generation (RAG) (Ram et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023) and long-context LLMs (GLM et al., 2024; Li* et al., 2023; Tworkowski et al., 2023).

#### Long-context LLMs feature a large context win-

dow length to accommodate long-context inputs.

#### However, they may suffer from severe performance

degradation when accessing some local key details in the middle of long contexts (Liu et al., 2024b).

#### Conversely, RAG emerges as a promising approach

for cost-effective long-context summarization. By equipping with a retriever (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Robertson et al., 2009), RAG can first perform a relevance search based on user queries and then feed the retrieved text into LLMs for summary. For a recent example, GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024) conducts query-focused summarization by setting up a graph index and detecting graph communities for summary generation.

#### Nevertheless, most current RAG approaches still

focus on enhancing LLMs’ reasoning and question- answering capabilities, which only require retriev- ing locally relevant information (Trivedi et al., 2022; Jiang et al., 2023b; Asai et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023; Zheng et al., 2023). In comparison, our pro- posed method stands out from these methods by focusing on LLMs’ global summarization capabil- ity of long-context inputs.

#### Graph-assisted Retrieval-augmented Lan-

guage Models. As one of the effective structures for modeling data relations, graphs have recently been used to enhance the performance of retrieval- augmented language models on various QA tasks. EtD (Liu et al., 2024a) features a graph neural network (GNN) to traverse a knowledge graph hop by hop to discover more relevant knowledge, thus enhancing LLM generation quality. GNN-

#### RAG (Mavromatis and Karypis, 2024) learns to rea-

son over graphs using GNNs, and retrieves answer candidates for a given question. PG-RAG (Liang et al., 2024) constructs pseudo-graphs with a re- trieval indexer by prompting LLMs to organize document knowledge in a self-learning manner. G- RAG (Dong et al., 2024) proposes to rerank docu- ments by learning graph representation on abstract meaning representation graphs, while GNN-Ret (Li et al., 2024b) refines semantic distances between documents and queries by modeling relationships among related passages. ToG (Sun et al., 2023) and KGP (Wang et al., 2024) treat LLMs as agents to traverse and reason over knowledge graphs in an iterative way, while RoG (Luo et al., 2023) first generates plans for retrieval and then conducts rea- soning. G-Retriever (He et al., 2024) transforms retrieved knowledge subgraphs into graph embed- dings by training a graph encoder and textualizes subgraphs to serve as inputs of LLMs.

#### Different from the above, GraphRAG (Edge

et al., 2024) sets up a graph index for query-focused summarization, which aligns more closely with our approach. Compared with GraphRAG, which is time-consuming and suffers from huge computa- tional costs, GoR is lightweight and only draws on a few LLM historical responses with efficient training to achieve competitive performance.

5

#### Conclusion

#### In this work, we introduce a method named graph

of records (GoR) to improve long-context global summarization in retrieval-augmented generation by utilizing LLM-generated historical responses.

#### Intuitively, we establish connections between text

chunks retrieved from long documents and LLM- generated historical responses to create a graph of records. To uncover complex correlations between these connections, we use a graph neural network and develop a BERTScore-based objective for self- supervised training, enabling seamless supervision signal backpropagation between self-supervised reference summaries and node embeddings. Our experiments on four long-context summarization datasets show that GoR significantly outperforms various baselines, demonstrating its effectiveness.

23788

## Page 10

6

#### Limitations

#### Despite the superiority of our proposed method,

GoR has some limitations. (1) Due to a limited budget, we only simulate and generate a small num- ber of user queries, which may cause a bottleneck in further model optimization. (2) The simulated queries may not accurately reflect the real-world distribution, as they do not account for the possi- bility of users asking many meaningless questions.

#### Therefore, a filtering process may be necessary,

which we leave for future work.

#### To promote sharing and communication in the

academic community, we also share some insights about simulated queries here. Given the power- ful evaluation capabilities of LLMs, many works utilize LLM-as-a-Judge and treat LLMs as evalua- tors. Intuitively, in practical applications, we can first use some simple rule-based filtering strategies to preliminarily screen the meaningless questions raised by users, and then use LLM-as-a-Judge to evaluate the remaining questions and judge their quality from multiple dimensions (such as diversity, complexity, inspiration, etc.), which not only takes into account performance but also ensures a certain efficiency in real multi-user scenarios.

#### Acknowledgments

#### We sincerely appreciate the support from Amazon

grant funding project #120359, "GRAG: Enhance

#### RAG Applications with Graph-structured Knowl-

edge", and Meta gift funding project "PERM: To- ward Parameter Efficient Foundation Models for Recommenders"

#### References

#### Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama

#### Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,

#### Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,

Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.

AI@Meta. 2024. Llama 3 model card.

#### Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and

Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. Self-rag: Learning to retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11511.

#### Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gersten-

berger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas Gianinazzi, Joanna

#### Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Pi-

otr Nyczyk, et al. 2024. Graph of thoughts: Solving elaborate problems with large language models. In

#### Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial

Intelligence, volume 38, pages 17682–17690.

Christopher JC Burges. 2010. From ranknet to lamb- darank to lambdamart: An overview.

#### Learning,

11(23-581):81.

#### Jialin Dong, Bahare Fatemi, Bryan Perozzi, Lin F Yang,

and Anton Tsitsulin. 2024. Don’t forget to connect! improving rag with graph-based reranking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.18414.

#### Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua

#### Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt,

and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130.

#### Tao Feng, Pengrui Han, Guanyu Lin, Ge Liu, and Jiax-

uan You. 2024. Thought-retriever: Don’t just retrieve raw data, retrieve thoughts. In International Confer- ence on Learning Representations Workshop: How Far Are We From AGI.

#### Demian

#### Gholipour

#### Ghalandari,

#### Chris

#### Hokamp,

Nghia The Pham, John Glover, and Georgiana Ifrim. 2020. A large-scale multi-document summarization dataset from the Wikipedia current events portal.

#### In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the

#### Association for Computational Linguistics, pages

1302–1308, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.

#### Team GLM, Aohan Zeng, Bin Xu, Bowen Wang, Chen-

hui Zhang, Da Yin, Diego Rojas, Guanyu Feng, Han- lin Zhao, Hanyu Lai, Hao Yu, Hongning Wang, Ji- adai Sun, Jiajie Zhang, Jiale Cheng, Jiayi Gui, Jie

#### Tang, Jing Zhang, Juanzi Li, Lei Zhao, Lindong Wu,

#### Lucen Zhong, Mingdao Liu, Minlie Huang, Peng

#### Zhang, Qinkai Zheng, Rui Lu, Shuaiqi Duan, Shu-

dan Zhang, Shulin Cao, Shuxun Yang, Weng Lam

#### Tam, Wenyi Zhao, Xiao Liu, Xiao Xia, Xiaohan

#### Zhang, Xiaotao Gu, Xin Lv, Xinghan Liu, Xinyi Liu,

#### Xinyue Yang, Xixuan Song, Xunkai Zhang, Yifan

#### An, Yifan Xu, Yilin Niu, Yuantao Yang, Yueyan Li,

#### Yushi Bai, Yuxiao Dong, Zehan Qi, Zhaoyu Wang,

#### Zhen Yang, Zhengxiao Du, Zhenyu Hou, and Zihan

Wang. 2024. Chatglm: A family of large language models from glm-130b to glm-4 all tools. Preprint, arXiv:2406.12793.

Aditya Grover and Jure Leskovec. 2016. node2vec: Scalable feature learning for networks. In Proceed- ings of the 22nd ACM international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 855– 864.

#### Jiawei Gu, Xuhui Jiang, Zhichao Shi, Hexiang Tan,

#### Xuehao Zhai, Chengjin Xu, Wei Li, Yinghan Shen,

#### Shengjie Ma, Honghao Liu, Yuanzhuo Wang, and

Jian Guo. 2024. A survey on llm-as-a-judge. arXiv preprint arXiv: 2411.15594.

#### Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song,

#### Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma,

23789

## Page 11

Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. 2025. Deepseek-r1: In- centivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforce- ment learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12948.

#### Zirui Guo, Lianghao Xia, Yanhua Yu, Tu Ao, and

Chao Huang. 2024.

#### Lightrag: Simple and fast

retrieval-augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05779.

Will Hamilton, Zhitao Ying, and Jure Leskovec. 2017. Inductive representation learning on large graphs. In

#### Annual Conference on Neural Information Process-

ing Systems.

#### Xiaoxin He, Yijun Tian, Yifei Sun, Nitesh V Chawla,

#### Thomas Laurent, Yann LeCun, Xavier Bresson, and

Bryan Hooi. 2024. G-retriever: Retrieval-augmented generation for textual graph understanding and ques- tion answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.07630.

#### Luyang Huang, Shuyang Cao, Nikolaus Parulian,

Heng Ji, and Lu Wang. 2021.

#### Efficient atten-

tions for long document summarization. Preprint, arXiv:2104.02112.

#### Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Se-

bastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2021. Unsupervised dense in- formation retrieval with contrastive learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09118.

#### Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Men-

sch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guil- laume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, et al. 2023a. Mistral 7b. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825.

#### Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine

#### Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bam-

ford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, et al. 2024. Mixtral of experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.04088.

#### Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing

#### Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang,

Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. 2023b. Ac- tive retrieval augmented generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06983.

Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O˘guz, Sewon Min, Patrick

#### Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and

Wen-tau Yih. 2020.

#### Dense passage retrieval for

open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04906.

Thomas N Kipf and Max Welling. 2016.

#### Semi-

supervised classification with graph convolutional networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907.

#### Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yu-

taka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa. 2022. Large lan- guage models are zero-shot reasoners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:22199– 22213.

Wojciech Kry´sci´nski, Nazneen Rajani, Divyansh Agar- wal, Caiming Xiong, and Dragomir Radev. 2021.

#### Booksum:

#### A collection of datasets for long-

form narrative summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.08209.

Dacheng Li*, Rulin Shao*, Anze Xie, Ying Sheng, Lian- min Zheng, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, Xuezhe Ma, and Hao Zhang. 2023. How long can open- source llms truly promise on context length?

#### Tianle Li, Ge Zhang, Quy Duc Do, Xiang Yue, and

Wenhu Chen. 2024a.

#### Long-context llms strug-

gle with long in-context learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.02060.

#### Xingxuan Li, Ruochen Zhao, Yew Ken Chia, Bosheng

#### Ding, Shafiq Joty, Soujanya Poria, and Lidong

Bing. 2023. Chain-of-knowledge: Grounding large language models via dynamic knowledge adapt- ing over heterogeneous sources. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13269.

#### Zijian Li, Qingyan Guo, Jiawei Shao, Lei Song, Jiang

Bian, Jun Zhang, and Rui Wang. 2024b. Graph neu- ral network enhanced retrieval for question answering of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.06572.

#### Xun Liang, Simin Niu, Sensen Zhang, Shichao Song,

#### Hanyu Wang, Jiawei Yang, Feiyu Xiong, Bo Tang,

Chenyang Xi, et al. 2024. Empowering large lan- guage models to set up a knowledge retrieval indexer via self-learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.16933.

Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries.

#### In Text summarization

branches out, pages 74–81.

#### Sheng-Chieh Lin, Akari Asai, Minghan Li, Barlas Oguz,

#### Jimmy Lin, Yashar Mehdad, Wen-tau Yih, and Xilun

Chen. 2023.

#### How to train your dragon: Diverse

augmentation towards generalizable dense retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.07452.

#### Guangyi Liu, Yongqi Zhang, Yong Li, and Quanming

Yao. 2024a. Explore then determine: A gnn-llm synergy framework for reasoning over knowledge graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01145.

#### Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-

jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2024b. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. Transactions of the Asso- ciation for Computational Linguistics, 12:157–173.

#### Linhao Luo, Yuan-Fang Li, Gholamreza Haffari, and

Shirui Pan. 2023. Reasoning on graphs: Faithful and interpretable large language model reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01061.

Costas Mavromatis and George Karypis. 2024. Gnn- rag: Graph neural retrieval for large language model reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20139.

Rodrigo Nogueira, Jimmy Lin, and AI Epistemic. 2019. From doc2query to doctttttquery. Online preprint, 6(2).

23790

## Page 12

#### Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine

#### Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,

Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the lim- its of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. Journal of machine learning research, 21(140):1–67.

#### Ori Ram, Yoav Levine, Itay Dalmedigos, Dor Muhlgay,

#### Amnon Shashua, Kevin Leyton-Brown, and Yoav

Shoham. 2023. In-context retrieval-augmented lan- guage models. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:1316–1331.

Juan Ramos et al. 2003. Using tf-idf to determine word relevance in document queries. In Proceedings of the first instructional conference on machine learning, volume 242, pages 29–48. Citeseer.

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.

#### In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical

Methods in Natural Language Processing. Associa- tion for Computational Linguistics.

Stephen Robertson, Hugo Zaragoza, et al. 2009. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and be- yond. Foundations and Trends® in Information Re- trieval, 3(4):333–389.

#### Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo

#### Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Heung-Yeung Shum,

and Jian Guo. 2023.

#### Think-on-graph: Deep and

responsible reasoning of large language model with knowledge graph. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07697.

#### Gemma Team, Thomas Mesnard, Cassidy Hardin,

#### Robert Dadashi, Surya Bhupatiraju, Shreya Pathak,

Laurent Sifre, Morgane Rivière, Mihir Sanjay Kale, Juliette Love, et al. 2024. Gemma: Open models based on gemini research and technology. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08295.

#### Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Al-

bert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay

#### Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti

Bhosale, et al. 2023.

#### Llama 2:

#### Open founda-

tion and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288.

#### Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar

Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022.

#### Interleav-

ing retrieval with chain-of-thought reasoning for knowledge-intensive multi-step questions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.10509.

Szymon Tworkowski, Konrad Staniszewski, Mikołaj

#### Pacek, Yuhuai Wu, Henryk Michalewski, and Piotr

Miło´s. 2023. Focused transformer: Contrastive train- ing for context scaling. Preprint, arXiv:2307.03170.

Aaron van den Oord, Yazhe Li, and Oriol Vinyals. 2018.

#### Representation learning with contrastive predictive

coding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03748v2.

Petar Veliˇckovi´c, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Lio, and Yoshua Bengio. 2017. Graph attention networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.10903.

#### Alex Wang, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Angelica Chen, Ja-

son Phang, and Samuel R Bowman. 2022a. Squality:

#### Building a long-document summarization dataset the

hard way. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.11465.

#### Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc

#### Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery,

and Denny Zhou. 2022b. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11171.

#### Yu Wang, Nedim Lipka, Ryan A Rossi, Alexa Siu, Ruiyi

Zhang, and Tyler Derr. 2024.

#### Knowledge graph

prompting for multi-document question answering.

#### In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial

Intelligence, volume 38, pages 19206–19214.

#### Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten

#### Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,

et al. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits rea- soning in large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–24837.

#### Felix Wu, Amauri Souza, Tianyi Zhang, Christopher

Fifty, Tao Yu, and Kilian Weinberger. 2019. Simpli- fying graph convolutional networks. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 6861–6871.

#### Keyulu Xu, Weihua Hu, Jure Leskovec, and Stefanie

Jegelka. 2019. How powerful are graph neural net- works?

#### In International Conference on Learning

Representations.

#### Ling Yang, Zhaochen Yu, Tianjun Zhang, Shiyi Cao,

#### Minkai Xu, Wentao Zhang, Joseph E Gonzalez,

and Bin Cui. 2024. Buffer of thoughts: Thought- augmented reasoning with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04271.

#### Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran,

Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2024. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.

Zichun Yu, Chenyan Xiong, Shi Yu, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2023. Augmentation-adapted retriever improves gen- eralization of language models as generic plug-in. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.17331.

#### Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q

Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2019. Bertscore: Eval- uating text generation with bert. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09675.

#### Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Swaroop Mishra, Xinyun Chen,

#### Heng-Tze Cheng, Ed H Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny

Zhou. 2023. Take a step back: Evoking reasoning via abstraction in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06117.

23791

## Page 13

#### Ming Zhong, Da Yin, Tao Yu, Ahmad Zaidi, Mutethia

#### Mutuma, Rahul Jha, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Asli

Celikyilmaz, Yang Liu, Xipeng Qiu, et al. 2021.

#### Qmsum: A new benchmark for query-based multi-

domain meeting summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05938.

Xiaojin Zhu and Zoubin Ghahramani. 2002. Learning from labeled and unlabeled data with label propaga- tion. ProQuest number: information to all users.

23792

## Page 14

A

#### Experimental Details

A.1

#### Dataset

We present dataset statistics in Table 5. Due to the limited budget, we randomly select training and test samples for the training and test set and calcu- late the average input and output token lengths us- ing the LLaMA-2 tokenizer (Touvron et al., 2023) (samples with short input lengths are filtered out).

#### We evaluate our proposed method on four long-

context summarization datasets, i.e., AcademicE- val (Feng et al., 2024), QMSum (Zhong et al., 2021), WCEP (Gholipour Ghalandari et al., 2020), and BookSum (Kry´sci´nski et al., 2021).

• QMSum (Zhong et al., 2021). QMSum is a query-based summarization dataset that fea- tures lengthy meeting transcripts, specific queries, and general queries. Specific queries focus on query-based summarization, and gen- eral queries are questions that summarize the entire meeting transcript, such as “Summarize the whole meeting.” We only use “general queries” for evaluating global summarization.

• AcademicEval (Feng et al., 2024). Aca- demicEval collects scientific papers from arXiv for abstract and related work writing.

#### We use the abstract writing subset, which pro-

vides the main body of a paper as input and generates the predicted abstract.

• WCEP (Gholipour Ghalandari et al., 2020).

#### WCEP is a multi-document summarization

dataset about news events, which requires comprehensive consideration of the contents of multiple documents.

• BookSum (Kry´sci´nski et al., 2021). Book-

#### Sum features long-form narrative summariza-

tion, which covers source documents from the literature domain and includes highly abstrac- tive human-written summaries.

A.2

#### Baselines

#### We present detailed descriptions of adopted base-

lines.

• Node2Vec (Grover and Leskovec, 2016).

#### Node2Vec generates node embeddings for

graphs by simulating biased random walks to capture both local and global structural prop- erties of nodes.

• BM25 (Robertson et al., 2009), TF- IDF (Ramos et al., 2003).

#### BM25 ranks

documents based on term frequency, inverse document frequency, and document length normalization, while TF-IDF evaluates the importance of a term in a document relative to a corpus by combining term frequency and inverse document frequency.

• Contriever (Izacard et al., 2021), DPR (Karpukhin et al., 2020), Dragon (Lin et al., 2023), SBERT (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019). Contriever is a self-supervised dense retriever that learns unsupervised document embeddings for information retrieval, DPR (Dense Passage Retriever) is a bi-encoder model that retrieves relevant passages by training on question-passage pairs, Dragon is a dense retrieval model optimized through diverse augmentation for generalizable dense retrieval, and SBERT (Sentence-BERT) is a modification of BERT that generates seman- tically meaningful sentence embeddings for tasks like similarity and clustering using a siamese network structure.

• BM25+DPR. BM25+DPR with Reciprocal

#### Rerank Fusion is a hybrid retrieval method

that combines the strengths of BM25’s lexi- cal matching and DPR’s dense embeddings by reranking results from both models using a reciprocal rank fusion strategy to improve retrieval accuracy.

• Gemma-8K (Team et al., 2024), Mistral- 8K (Jiang et al., 2023a). Gemma-8K and

#### Mistral-8K are LLMs with relatively long con-

text window lengths.

• Full Context. We feed all inputs to LLMs for summary generation. If the input length ex- ceeds the context window limit, we randomly sample continuous text spans of maximum length multiple times to feed into LLMs and calculate the average result.

• Thought-R (Feng et al., 2024). Thought Re- triever (Thought-R) generates thoughts for a series of simulated queries and appends them to the retrieval corpus as high-level knowl- edge.

23793

## Page 15

#### Dataset

#Train #Test

#### Average Input

#### Token Length

#### Average Output

#### Token Length

QMSum (Zhong et al., 2021) 162 30 17K 0.1K AcademicEval (Feng et al., 2024) 400 30 13K 0.3K WCEP (Gholipour Ghalandari et al., 2020) 400 30 11K 0.05K BookSum (Kry´sci´nski et al., 2021) 400 30 16K 1K

#### Table 5: Dataset statistics

A.3

#### Additional Explanation on Training

#### Objective

#### Given a graph that consists of document chunks

and response nodes, we expect that the learned node embeddings h(L) v can adaptively reflect the semantic similarity to a given query q. In other words, we expect that we can select the node v with the largest semantic similarity to q according to the formula Sim(q, v) = Eq(q)T ·h(L) v . To this end, we need to find out which node has the highest semantic similarity with q and use this as a supervi- sion signal for model optimization. Therefore, we utilize BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2019) to obtain a node ranking list Mi, which exactly serves as supervision signals.

Mi = [h(L) + , h(L) 1 , · · · , h(L) |C|+|T|] (9)

#### For contrastive loss in Equation 6, we regard

h(L) + as the positive and [h(L) 1 , · · · , h(L) |C|+|T|] as the negatives to conduct contrastive learning (van den Oord et al., 2018).

#### For a given query q, the

contrastive learning objective will bring Eq(q) and h(L) + closer in the semantic embedding space while increasing the distance between Eq(q) and [h(L) 1 , · · · , h(L) |C|+|T|] (the symbols are simplified here for convenience of description).

#### Similarly, in Equation 7, we expect to impose

a stricter constraint on the learned node embed- ding based on the node ranking list Mi. Although

#### Equation 6 shortens the semantic distance between

#### Eq(q) and h(L)

+ , it does not take into account the relative ranking between negative samples. For ex- ample, the semantic similarity between Eq(q) and h(L) 1 is higher than that between h(L) 2 . Formally, given h(L) i , h(L) j ∈Mi that satisfies rank(h(L) j ) >

rank(h(L) i ), Equation 7 will explicitly optimize in the direction of Eq(q)⊤h(L) j < Eq(q)⊤h(L) i , thus imposing stricter constraints to the pair-wise rank- ing.

A.4

#### Additional Implementation Details

#### In the stage of graph construction, due to the num-

ber and randomness of the simulated queries, there may be some isolated nodes, and we just keep them in the graph with self-loop edges. During model optimization, BERTScore is pre-computed for effi- cient training.

#### In the training stage, we use the Adam optimizer

for model training and gradually decay the learning rate from 1e-3 to 0 with the LambdaLR scheduler.

#### We present detailed hyper-parameters on QMSum,

#### AcademicEval, WCEP, and BookSum datasets in

Table 6. We implement our proposed method using

#### PyTorch and Deep Graph Library (DGL), and all

the experiments are conducted on a single RTX 3080 GPU. As for LLMs, we rely on API calling from Together AI3 to obtain responses.

#### For metrics, we adopt Rouge-1 (R-1), Rouge-2

(R-2), and Rouge-L (R-L) (Lin, 2004) to assess the text alignment between the reference summaries and the predicted content generated by our pro- posed method. If a global summarization query has multiple reference summaries, we calculate the

#### Rouge-L/1/2 of the predicted summary and all ref-

erences, respectively, and take the maximum value as the final evaluation result. We follow this setting in all experiments, including the baseline evalua- tion.

A.5

#### More Comparison Experiments

#### We conduct extensive experiments on GovRe-

port (Huang et al., 2021) and SQuALITY (Wang et al., 2022a) datasets, and the results are shown in Table 7, which demonstrate our proposed GoR is still competitive among baselines on these two datasets.

A.6

#### More Ablation Experiments

#### We conduct extensive ablation experiments on QM-

Sum (Zhong et al., 2021) and AcademicEval (Feng

3 https://www.together.ai/

23794

## Page 16

#### Datasets

#### QMSum

#### AcademicEval

WCEP

#### BookSum

#GAT Layers 2 2 2 2 #GAT Heads 4 4 4 4

#### Batch Size

32 32 32 32

#### Epoch

150 150 150 150

#### Learning Rate

1e-3 1e-3 1e-3 1e-3

#### Hidden Dimension

768 768 768 768

#### Dropout Rate

0.2 0.0 0.1 0.2 Loss Coefficient α 0.9 0.6 0.7 0.2

#### Table 6: Hyper-parameters

#### Model

#### GovReport

#### SQuALITY

R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2

#### Node2Vec

18.1 36.7 12.4 17.0 32.9 7.7

BM25 18.2 39.2 13.0 17.0 31.4 8.1

#### TF-IDF

18.1 39.2 12.8 17.0 31.4 8.1

#### Contriever

20.2 39.8 17.6 16.8 32.6 8.3 DPR 19.1 39.4 15.5 17.4 33.1 8.4

#### Dragon

19.6 38.2 16.0 16.2 29.6 7.5

#### SBERT

20.0 39.8 15.8 17.1 32.1 7.8

BM25+DPR 19.4 37.4 15.0 16.6 31.5 7.4

#### Gemma-8K

17.4 33.8 11.4 12.9 19.7 5.8

#### Mistral-8K

16.0 28.9 9.4 16.9 32.2 8.1

#### Full Context

18.4 39.1 13.8 17.8 34.0 8.8

#### Thought-R

20.4 40.3 17.0 17.3 32.0 8.0

#### GoR (Ours)

20.9 41.4 16.8 17.8 34.0 8.5

#### Table 7: Experimental results on GovReport and SQuALITY datasets over long-context global summarization

tasks w.r.t. Rouge-L (R-L), Rouge-1 (R-1), and Rouge-2 (R-2). Note that the average LLM input token length of GoR and retriever-based baselines is 6 × 256, which is about 1.5K. (BOLD indicates the best score)

et al., 2024) datasets, and the results are shown in Table 8.

#### Variant

#### QMSum

#### AcademicEval

R-L R-1 R-2 R-L R-1 R-2

w/o train 18.2 33.0 7.6 23.3 45.0 15.5 w/o LCL 18.4 33.3 6.9 23.5 44.9 15.5 w/o LRANK 19.6 33.1 7.8 23.1 44.4 15.1 w/o in-b neg 19.8 34.7 7.8 24.5 46.4 16.5 w/ sup 18.1 32.3 6.9 21.4 43.3 13.9

GoR 19.8 34.5 7.8 24.7 46.5 17.3

#### Table 8: Ablation study on QMSum and AcademicE-

val datasets w.r.t. R-L, R-1, and R-2.

A.7

#### Impact of GNN Architectures

#### GNNs play a vital role in learning node embed-

dings. we explore various GNN architectures to

study their impact on learning node embeddings, in- cluding GCN (Kipf and Welling, 2016), SGC (Wu et al., 2019), GIN (Xu et al., 2019), and Graph- SAGE (Hamilton et al., 2017). Our findings, il- lustrated in Figure 4, show that GAT outperforms the other architectures. This is because GAT con- siders the significance of neighboring nodes when updating node embeddings, allowing the model to effectively capture essential information from the nodes. Among the other architectures, Graph-

#### SAGE performs poorly due to its unstable neighbor

sampling mechanism.

#### Overall, GAT reaches the best results, which

shows that considering the importance of neighbor- ing nodes is effective in mining complicated corre- lations and is critical to improving performance.

23795

## Page 17

GCN SGC GIN

#### GraphSAGE

GAT

#### GNN Variant

5

10

15

20

25

#### R-L/1/2

WCEP

R-L R-1 R-2

GCN SGC GIN

#### GraphSAGE

GAT

#### GNN Variant

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

#### R-L/1/2

#### BookSum

R-L R-1 R-2

Figure 4: Impact of GNN architectures w.r.t. R-L, R-1, and R-2. The left figure shows results on the WCEP dataset, while the right one shows results with the BookSum dataset.

A.8

#### Impact of the Number of Simulated

#### Queries During Training

#### We show additional results on the AcademicEval

and BookSum datasets in Figure 5.

0 5 10 15 20 25 30 #Simulated Queries

23.00 23.25 23.50 23.75 24.00 24.25 24.50 24.75

R-L

#### AcademicEval

0 5 10 15 20 25 30 #Simulated Queries

13.50 13.75 14.00 14.25 14.50 14.75

R-L

#### BookSum

#### Figure 5: Impact of the number of simulated queries

during training w.r.t. R-L. We show the additional results on the AcademicEval and BookSum datasets.

A.9

#### Supervised Training on Global

#### Summarization Queries

#### We show additional results on the WCEP dataset

in Figure 6.

0 20 40 60 80 100120140

#### Epoch

0

2

4

6

8

10

Loss

WCEP

#### Self-supervised

#### Supervised

0 20 40 60 80 100120140

#### Epoch

0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0

#### Entropy

WCEP

#### Self-supervised

#### Supervised

#### Figure 6: Differences between self-supervised and

supervised training w.r.t. loss and entropy. We show the loss and entropy curve during training on the WCEP dataset.

B

#### Additional Related Work

Historical Response Utilization of LLMs. Little work has been done on this under-explored topic.

Thought-retriever (Feng et al., 2024) saves the his- torical responses of each user-LLM interaction as high-level and informative thoughts to expand the retrieval corpus for future user queries. However, the intricate correlations among thoughts are ne- glected, leaving room for further improvement.

#### Another line of work is the Chain-of-Thought

(CoT), which is similar to our approach in terms of utilizing LLM historical responses and has been regarded as an effective means to enhance the rea- soning ability of LLM during inference time in recent years. Few-shot CoT (Wei et al., 2022) and zero-shot CoT (Kojima et al., 2022) elicit interme- diate reasoning paths by prompting LLMs with sev- eral demonstrations or just appending "Let’s think step by step." Self-consistency (Wang et al., 2022b) samples diverse reasoning paths and conducts a majority vote to obtain the final answer. ToT (Yao et al., 2024) and GoT (Besta et al., 2024) take a further step by integrating a tree or graph structure to manage its historical reasoning paths, enabling more flexible reasoning and reflection of LLMs.

#### By memorizing the solution paradigms of various

queries into different templates, BoT (Yang et al., 2024) pushes LLM’s reasoning ability to a new level. Although the above-mentioned CoT-series approaches improve the reasoning capabilities of

#### LLMs by utilizing chains of intermediate reasoning

responses, they usually concentrate on one specific

#### QA-type query and cannot generalize to and ben-

efit other queries. Moreover, only a small number of historical reasoning responses are retained for the final generation, while most of the rest are just discarded.

23796

## Page 18

C

#### Case Study

#### In this section, we provide a case study of GoR and

other baseline methods’ summarization.

#### The Summary Generated by GoR

#### An asteroid called 1999 KW4 will make a

close approach to Earth this weekend, with its own small moon in tow. The asteroid is estimated to be around 1.5 km wide and will be roughly 3.2 million miles from Earth at its closest point. NASA astronomers are interested in studying the asteroid due to its close proximity and the fact that it is a binary system, meaning it has its own moon. The last time the asteroid will make a close approach to Earth will be in 2036.

#### Additionally, a recent study using data from

NASA’s Kepler Space Telescope suggests that comets may have delivered water to

#### Earth, as the ratio of two types of water

molecules on comets matches that in Earth’s oceans. The new algorithm used in the study is more sensitive to small planets the size of Earth and could help in the search for Earth-like planets.

#### The Summary Generated by Contriever

#### Asteroid 2019 JH7 recently flew past Earth,

and NASA observed that the asteroid’s tra- jectory falls under the "Earth Close Ap- proach" category. The observations made by NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, California, suggest that comets could have delivered water to Earth. The study found that the ratio of two types of water molecules on the comet matches that in the Earth’s oceans, which could imply that comets delivered a large fraction of wa- ter to the outer reaches of the solar system.

#### The observations made using data from the

#### SOFIA telescope suggest that all comets

could have a heavy-to-regular water ratio similar to Earth’s oceans, which could imply that comets delivered some water to Earth.

#### Previously, measuring this ratio was diffi-

cult, and ground and space telescopes could only study this level of detail in comets when they pass near Earth.

#### Reference Summary

#### Binary Aten asteroid (66391) 1999 KW4

and its minor-planet moon make their closest-ever recorded flyby of Earth at 3.2 million miles away. The asteroid will ap- proach even closer at 0.0155 AU (2,320,000 km) from Earth in 2036, and is the largest asteroid to approach Earth until (4953) 1990 MU in June 2027.

#### From the above example, we can draw conclu-

sions. (1) GoR summarizes several keywords that appear in the reference summary, such as “1999 KW4" and “3.2 million miles", etc., but Contriever fails to extract this crucial information. (2) From a global perspective, the summary generated by GoR is more relevant and consistent with the reference summary. However, the summary generated by

#### Contriever focuses too much on local details and

ignores the main idea of the original article.

23797

## Page 19

D

#### LLM Prompts

#### In this section, we present LLM prompts used in

#### GoR, including user query simulation, RAG, and

LLM-as-a-Judge prompts.

D.1

#### LLM Prompts for User Query Simulation

#### Prompt for User Query Simulation

#### You are a great questioner of any text, and

are adept at asking valuable and insightful questions.

#### Your goal is to generate 1

summary question for the text provided below. The generated summary question should try to simulate the tone of human questions as much as possible, and make sure that the generated question must be interrogative sentences and a summary question. Important! Please make sure this text must be a complete and non-redundant answer to the generated summary question.

#### Please

directly output the generated summary question, do not output irrelevant text.

#### DOCUMENT:

{document}

D.2

#### LLM Prompts for RAG

#### RAG Prompt

#### Refer to the following supporting materials

and answer the question with brief but complete explanations.

#### SUPPORTING MATERIALS:

{materials}

#### QUESTION:

{question}

D.3

#### LLM Prompts for LLM-as-a-Judge

#### We construct LLM-as-a-Judge prompts follow-

ing (Edge et al., 2024) and (Guo et al., 2024) with some minor changes.

#### LLM-as-a-Judge Prompt - Instruction

—Role—

#### You are an expert tasked with evaluating

two answers to the same question based on four criteria: Comprehensiveness, Diversity, and Empowerment.

—Goal—

#### You will evaluate two answers to the same

question based on four criteria: Compre- hensiveness, Diversity, and Empowerment.

#### Comprehensiveness: How much detail does

the answer provide to cover all aspects and details of the question?

#### Diversity:

#### How varied and rich is the

answer in providing different perspectives and insights on the question?

#### Empowerment: How well does the answer

help the reader understand and make informed judgments about the topic?

#### For each criterion, choose the better answer

(either Answer 1 or Answer 2) and explain why. Then, select an overall winner based on these three categories.

23798

## Page 20

#### LLM-as-a-Judge Prompt - Input

Here is the question: {query}

#### Here are the two answers:

#### Answer 1:

{answer1}; Answer 2: {answer2}

#### Evaluate both answers using the three

criteria listed above and provide detailed explanations for each criterion.

#### Avoiding any potential bias and ensuring

that the order in which the answers were presented does not affect your judgment.

#### Output your evaluation in the following

#### JSON format:

{{ "Comprehensiveness": {{ "Winner": "[Answer 1 or Answer 2]", "Explanation": "[Provide explanation here]" }}, "Diversity": {{ "Winner": "[Answer 1 or Answer 2]", "Explanation": "[Provide ex- planation here]" }}, "Empowerment": {{ "Winner": "[Answer 1 or Answer 2]", "Explanation": "[Provide explanation here]" }}, "Overall Winner": {{"Winner": "[Answer 1 or Answer 2]", "Explanation": "[Summa- rize why this answer is the overall winner based on the three criteria]" }} }}

E

#### Broader Impacts

#### In the era of LLMs, countless interactions take

place between users and these models on a daily ba- sis, resulting in the generation of a vast amount of historical responses. Our proposed method demon- strates that these historical responses hold signifi- cant potential and can be effectively leveraged to further improve the quality of future responses gen- erated by LLMs. By analyzing and reusing these past outputs, we can not only refine and enhance the overall performance of the models but also reduce computational overhead. This approach highlights the untapped value of historical data in optimiz- ing response generation while making the process more efficient and resource-friendly.

23799
